## Development of Open House

## Community of Practice and Workshopping

I view the community of practice as a fairly broad group; not just the class -- though they are certainly the strongest source of inspiration and productive commentary --  but also the online sites I’ve engaged with like itch.io. In a way, I have to say I owe some sort of nervous, youthful energy to the examples from itch.io that I sought out when originally brainstorming for ‘Open House’. Many examples dealt with character conflicts; with struggling individually against difficult, stubborn systems; with working to understand an obfuscated narrative world. I think a lot of this tends to be reinforced by the programs used -- Bitzy and Twine lend themselves to the central player character, though of course this is a rich place to challenge things.

Apps like Twine and Bitzy have incredible potential, but they can be daunting when, like me, you’re coming to them with little prior experience. Being able to see what others are making, as well as engaging with the many tutorials and databases found online, gives me many ways to engage. I can identify the Bitzy interfaces I’ve developed as a large step in becoming familiar with the medium. 

I have found engagement with peers to be a little sparse, but the ideas others have proposed are interesting and inspiring. For examples, Bronte’s choice to include multiple forms (both Bitzy and Bitzy 3D) in her work was a great reminder that I could do the same with my piece. In conversations with peers, we could commiserate on the challenges that came with learning new skills in unfamiliar, challenging disciplines. This was comforting, and it also helped that we talked about the Twine stories we were working on.

## Considering Audience

As a Twine work, Open House would already have a fairly vibrant and dedicated online audience, on both the Twine website and through sites like itch.io. There is a diverse community of home-grown makers and players, so a work like mine would certainly have places to find a home. In the mainstream, as we've read and learnt through the history of digital literature, there isn't quite as much appreciation - it would likely be in galleries or experimental fora that people would be ready to accept a digital work, and here I feel like my piece is not quite poetic or visual enough to fit in. The other audience that has seemed receptive to digital form stories is the academy, and this course has provided both an idea of the academic reception to digital literature and a list of those bodies that make it their business to platform and support digital writing. I can certainly imagine working towards subimitting to the ELO or an online Australian literary journal once I have more confidence in my grasp of the medium. 

  Thinking about the audience is a common aspect of all writing - certainly, when I write about topics like Open House that are so broadly felt, I'm always thinking about how what I'm writing will either connect with a reader's own experience or not. In some ways it's a danger for an amateur writer like me that wants to write about fairly large ideas, yet only has limited experience in reserach or journalistic practice. In many ways, I'm always trying to anticipate an audience to better write for them, to better understand and build empathy with them. 
  
  To this end, I think I have a somewhat young audience in mind -- digital native Millenials or even younger Gen Zs -- though these sorts of generational frames only go so far. I think that with a strong understanding of what you seek to challange or show with your inovative use of digital programs or forms, the better chance you have of impacting people that might not be digital writing fanatics. I believe many people who have grown up with technology in their hands for the majority of their days will have some curiosity towards artists breaking or shifting the usualy ways of consuming media, writing and art.
